Emperor Marcus Aurelius was the most
powerful man on earth he commanded an
army that was feared in all corners of
the known world and if he wanted he
could have sex with any woman he desires
and be drunk and partying for the rest
of his life it's quite difficult to
imagine absolute power many powerful
people in the past and the present
cannot handle power they become corrupt
slaves of the greed and hunger for more
but Marcus Aurelius was different he was
the Emperor of Rome and very conscious
of the fact that momentary pleasure was
available to him without limits as
opposed to his son Commodus he turned
away from orgies excessive use of
alcohol and a sadistic six scenes in the
Colosseum when a Roman elite went for
entertainment he wrote about his
determination and struggle with himself
in his memoirs that were never meant to
be published called meditations
meditations became a key work over more
than 2,000 years old philosophical
school god stoicism the Stokes observed
that from the human perspective two
categories can be distinguished things
that we do not control and things that
we do control the stokke philosopher
Epictetus starts his work the
enchiridion with the fundamental tenets
of stoicism which is that most things
are simply not up to us
think about exterior things like our
friends or colleagues or intimate
partners the economy the number of likes
on Facebook things that politicians say
or the deterioration of our bodies yes
we can influence these matters but even
if we do everything right economy can
still collapse our money can be taken
from us and our intimate partners can
cheat or die at the end of the day
there's nothing we can do to exclude
misfortune this sounds depressing and
pessimistic but don't worry there are
still aspects of our life that are up to
us
according to epictetus these aspects are
our opinions our own actions or in other
words the position we take towards the
world around us
according to epictetus we should focus
on the things within our control and
have a contempt for the things not
in our control someone who is severely
ill doesn't have control over his or her
disease we can mitigate the symptoms or
use healing techniques hoping that the
patient recovers but the results are not
up to us
nevertheless this person can decide
which position he or she takes in
regards to the situation when the
sickness is fully accepted and the
possibility of death as well a human
being can reach a state of inner peace
by the way this is not medical advice
it's philosophy also a calm mind can act
in a logical and rational way and
probably makes better life choices which
might increase the chance of recovery
stoic ethics consist of different values
I haven't discovered a solid formula
which contains these values like some
kind of ten commandments but I did
discover that stoicism points to life in
accordance with nature nature refers to
the greater whole and our role in it as
human beings from our innate potential
we have to act for the benefit of the
whole we shouldn't act against the
natural course of things but embrace it
in opposition to what some belief Stoics
are not beings without emotion they see
emotion as a human characteristic that
can be trumped by reason because it's
not the emotion itself that decides our
mood but the position we take towards
that emotion this way of thinking is
quite therapeutic because it doesn't
only make you more aware of your
emotions but you can see them as
sensations that come and go like the
waves of the ocean this way you won't
get overwhelmed by them modern Stoics
focused themselves on a number of
exercises to reach inner peace like the
primary - iam alone or the negative
visualization Marcus Aurelius was
confronted daily with all sorts of
people who weren't very nice to deal
with by starting the day with a negative
visualization
he mentally prepared himself for these
confrontations he told himself today I
shall be meeting with interference in
gratitude insolence disloyalty ill-will
and selfishness all of them due to the
offenders ignorant of what is good or
evil a stoic often reminds himself that
life is temporary which is called man
Mauri so he won't waste time on trivial
things and and that's my own twist
doesn't take life too serious either
another exercise is called the view from
above that makes us see ourselves from a
cosmic point of view so we realize how
small and unimportant we are compared to
the vastness of the universe that
indifference is a power the Stoics know
very well life is short and that's why
it's important to point our life energy
towards essential and important things
and leave unimportant things be
especially in the current age stoicism
can be a valuable instrument to give our
lives guidance so we don't drown in a
sea of stimuli and distractions thank
you for watching